hello I'm Lee duet in Jerusalem it's
11:00 a.m. in the morning in Israel and
in the Gaza Strip our top story this
hour the Israeli military says it has
carried out what it described as a
significant incursion into the Gaza
Strip overnight to attack the positions
of Hamas speaking a short time ago to
the BBC an Israeli Defense Force
spokesperson said soldiers carried out
the Tactical raid towards Central Gaza
to in his words prepare the battlefield
for future operations take a listen we
did a uh tactical raid which means that
the forces went in and then went out uh
during the night in order to prepare the
battlefield and to prepare ourselves for
coming operations our forces are now
back in Israel the activity occur
occurred during the night and uh was
concluded successfully without any
significant events
it's not the first time the IDF has
carried out what it describes as limited
ground raids into Gaza but this
development comes as the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu insisted
that a ground invasion of Gaza was
coming following questions here in
Israel and abroad about why it was
taking so long the Prime Minister
speaking on Prime Time television here
in Israel on Wednesday night said the
timing of the offensive was still to be
determined and it would be reached by
consensus there's many pressures on
Israel's political and military leaders
to delay this widely anticipated attack
by ground for the latest here's our
correspondent Tom bitman Israel's prime
minister said in a televised speech that
Israeli forces are still preparing for a
ground Invasion but didn't give any
clues as to the
timing we are reigning Hellfire on Hass
we have already killed thousands of
terrorists and this is only the
beginning simultaneously we are
preparing for a ground Invasion I will
not elaborate on when how or how many
Israel's bombardment of the Gaza Strip
has continued the UN says the most
intensive yet in the past 24 hours with
hundreds of people
killed the Qatari News Network Al jazer
said the family of its correspondent was
killed in a strike on a refugee camp in
the
strip meanwhile the United Nations says
its fuel reserves in Gaza are nearly out
and it has begun reducing its
humanitarian
operations hospitals are stopping all
but Emergency Operations with the UN
warning that more hospitals and shelters
could be forced to
close meanwhile the World Health
Organization said that without fuel
babies in incubators who need life
support will simply die reiterate ating
that safe and sustained access is needed
or it says there will be more suffering
and death in
Gaza to treat patients you need
electricity for surgical theaters you
need electricity for incubators for
dialysis machines uh so we need fuel
fuel is also needed to desalinate the
water so hospitals have a clean water
clean water is is is is of vital
importance in hospitals uh to keep
patients safe and provide Health
Services
meanwhile the World Health Organization
has also reiterated its call for Hamas
to release all of the hostages abducted
from Israel on humanitarian and health
grounds it warns that many of the
hostages had pre-existing health
conditions there have been further calls
now for a humanitarian pause in the
fighting to allow more Aid in but for
now the war goes on Tom bitman BBC News
Jerusalem